
* A Project Gutenberg Canada Ebook *

This ebook is made available at no cost and with very few
restrictions. These restrictions apply only if (1) you make
a change in the ebook (other than alteration for different
display devices), or (2) you are making commercial use of
the ebook. If either of these conditions applies, please
check gutenberg.ca/links/licence.html before proceeding.

This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be
under copyright in some countries. If you live outside Canada,
check your country's copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER
COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT DOWNLOAD
OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.

Title: Brave New World
Author: Huxley, Aldous [Aldous Leonard] (1894-1963)
Date of first publication: 1932
Edition used as base for this ebook:
   London: Chatto & Windus, 1932
   [first edition]
Date first posted: 10 June 2016
Date last updated: 10 June 2016
Project Gutenberg Canada ebook #1328

This ebook was produced by Paul Dring, Cindy Beyer,
Mark Akrigg & the Online Distributed Proofreading
Canada Team at http://www.pgdpcanada.net


PUBLISHER'S NOTE

Italics in the original printed edition are indicated _thus_.

Obvious typographical errors have been silently corrected.

As part of the conversion of the book to its new digital
format, we have made certain minor adjustments in its layout.

The list of books by Aldous Huxley has been moved to the end
of the book from its original position preceding the title page.

Chapter III includes the chemical formula CH3C6H2(NO2)3+Hg(CNO)2.
In the printed edition the numbers in this formula were subscripts,
which could not be reproduced in this plain text digital version.






BRAVE NEW WORLD

A NOVEL BY ALDOUS HUXLEY





Les utopies apparaissent comme bien plus réalisables qu'on ne le
croyait autrefois. Et nous nous trouvons actuellement devant
une question bien autrement angoissante: Comment éviter leur
réalisation définitive?... Les utopies sont réalisables. La vie
marche vers les utopies. Et peut-être un siècle nouveau
commence-t-il, un siècle où les intellectuels et la classe
cultivée rêveront aux moyens d'éviter les utopies et de retourner
à une societé non utopique, moins 'parfaite' et plus libre.

NICOLAS BERDIAEFF.





                           BRAVE NEW WORLD




                               Chapter I


A squat grey building of only thirty-four stories. Over the main
entrance the words, =Central London Hatchery and Conditioning
Centre=, and, in a shield, the World State's motto,
=Community, Identity, Stability=.

The enormous room on the ground-floor faced towards the north. Cold for
all the summer beyond the panes, for all the tropical heat of the room
itself, a harsh thin light glared through the windows, hungrily seeking
some draped lay figure, some pallid shape of academic goose-flesh, but
finding only the glass and nickel and bleakly shining porcelain of a
laboratory. Wintriness responded to wintriness. The overalls of the
workers were white, their hands gloved with a pale corpse-coloured
rubber. The light was frozen, dead, a ghost. Only from the yellow
barrels of the microscopes did it borrow a certain rich and living
substance, lying along the polished tubes like butter, streak after
luscious streak in long recession down the work-tables.

'And this,' said the Director opening the door, 'is the Fertilizing
Room.'

Bent over their instruments, three hundred Fertilizers were plunged, as
the Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning entered the room, in the
scarcely breathing silence, the absent-minded, soliloquizing hum or
whistle, of absorbed concentration. A troop of newly arrived students,
very young, pink and callow, followed nervously, rather abjectly, at the
Director's heels. Each of them carried a note-book, in which, whenever
the great man spoke, he desperately scribbled. Straight from the horse's
mouth. It was a rare privilege. The D.H.C. for Central London always
made a point of personally conducting his new students round the various
departments.

'Just to give you a general idea,' he would explain to them. For of
course som