gate treatment--a sense of dreadful
emptiness, a breathless apprehension, a nausea. Her heart seemed to stop
beating.

'Perhaps it's because he doesn't like me,' she said to herself. And at
once this possibility became an established certainty: John had refused
to come because he didn't like her. He didn't like her....

'It really is a bit _too_ thick,' the Head Mistress of Eton was saying
to the Director of Crematoria and Phosphorus Reclamation. 'When I think
that I actually...'

'Yes,' came the voice of Fanny Crowne, 'it's absolutely true about
the alcohol. Some one I know knew some one who was working in the
Embryo Store at the time. She said to my friend, and my friend said
to me...'

'Too bad, too bad,' said Henry Foster, sympathizing with the
Arch-Community-Songster. 'It may interest you to know that our
ex-Director was on the point of transferring him to Iceland.'

Pierced by every word that was spoken, the tight balloon of Bernard's
happy self-confidence was leaking from a thousand wounds. Pale,
distraught, abject and agitated, he moved among his guests, stammering
incoherent apologies, assuring them that next time the Savage would
certainly be there, begging them to sit down and take a carotine
sandwich, a slice of vitamin A _pâté_, a glass of champagne-surrogate.
They duly ate, but ignored him; drank and were either rude to his face
or talked to one another about him, loudly and offensively as though he
had not been there.

'And now, my friends,' said the Arch-Community-Songster of Canterbury,
in that beautiful ringing voice with which he led the proceedings at
Ford's Day Celebrations, 'Now, my friends, I think perhaps the time has
come...' He rose, put down his glass, brushed from his purple viscose
waistcoat the crumbs of a considerable collation, and walked towards the
door.

Bernard darted forward to intercept him.

'Must you really, Arch-Songster?... It's very early still. I'd hoped
you would...'

Yes, what hadn't he hoped, when Lenina confidentially told him that the
Arch-Community-Songster would accept an invitation if it were sent.
'He's really rather sweet, you know.' And she had shown Bernard the
little golden zipper-fastening in the form of a T which the
Arch-Songster had given her as a memento of the week-end she had spent
at the Diocesan Singery. _To meet the Arch-Community-Songster of
Canterbury and Mr. Savage._ Bernard had proclaimed his triumph on every
invitation card. But the Savage had chosen this evening of all evenings
to lock himself up in his room, to shout '_Háni!_' and even (it was
lucky that Bernard didn't understand Zuñi) '_Sons éso tse-ná!_' What
should have been the crowning moment of Bernard's whole career had
turned out to be the moment of his greatest humiliation.

'I'd so much hoped...' he stammeringly repeated, looking up at the
great dignitary with pleading and distracted eyes.

'My young friend,' said the Arch-Community-Songster in a tone of loud
and solemn severity; there was a general silence. 'Let me give you a
word of advice.' He wagged his finger at Bernard. 'Before it's too late.
A word of good advice.' (His voice became sepulchral.) 'Mend your ways,
my young friend, mend your ways.' He made the sign of the T over him and
turned away. 'Lenina, my dear,' he called in another tone. 'Come with
me.'

Obediently, but unsmiling and (wholly insensible of the honour done to
her) without elation, Lenina walked after him, out of the room. The
other guests followed at a respectful interval. The last of them slammed
the door. Bernard was all alone.

Punctured, utterly deflated, he dropped into a chair and, covering his
face with his hands, began to weep. A few minutes later, however, he
thought better of it and took four tablets of _soma_.

****

Upstairs in his room the Savage was reading _Romeo and Juliet_.

****

Lenina and the Arch-Community-Songster stepped out on to the roof of the
Singery. 'Hurry up, my young friend--I mean, Lenina,' called the
Arch-Songster impatiently from the lift gates. Lenina, who had lingered
for a moment to look at the moon, dropped her eyes and came 