hurrying
across the roof to rejoin him.

****

'A New Theory of Biology' was the title of the paper which Mustapha Mond
had just finished reading. He sat for some time, meditatively frowning,
then picked up his pen and wrote across the title-page. 'The author's
mathematical treatment of the conception of purpose is novel and highly
ingenious, but heretical and, so far as the present social order is
concerned, dangerous and potentially subversive. _Not to be published._'
He underlined the words. 'The author will be kept under supervision. His
transference to the Marine Biological Station of St. Helena may become
necessary.' A pity, he thought, as he signed his name. It was a masterly
piece of work. But once you began admitting explanations in terms of
purpose--well, you didn't know what the result might be. It was the sort
of idea that might easily de-condition the more unsettled minds among
the higher castes--make them lose their faith in happiness as the
Sovereign Good and take to believing, instead, that the goal was
somewhere beyond, somewhere outside the present human sphere; that the
purpose of life was not the maintenance of well-being, but some
intensification and refining of consciousness, some enlargement of
knowledge. Which was, the Controller reflected, quite possibly true. But
not, in the present circumstance, admissible. He picked up his pen
again, and under the words '_Not to be published_' drew a second line,
thicker and blacker than the first; then sighed. 'What fun it would be,'
he thought, 'if one didn't have to think about happiness!'

****

With closed eyes, his face shining with rapture, John was softly
declaiming to vacancy:

          'O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
          It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
          Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear;
          Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear....'

****

The golden T lay shining on Lenina's bosom. Sportively, the
Arch-Community-Songster caught hold of it, sportively he pulled, pulled.
'I think,' said Lenina suddenly, breaking a long silence, 'I'd better
take a couple of grammes of _soma_.'

****

Bernard, by this time, was fast asleep and smiling at the private
paradise of his dreams. Smiling, smiling. But inexorably, every
thirty seconds, the minute hand of the electric clock above his bed
jumped forward with an almost imperceptible click. Click, click,
click, click... And it was morning. Bernard was back among the
miseries of space and time. It was in the lowest spirits that
he taxied across to his work at the Conditioning Centre.
The intoxication of success had evaporated; he was soberly
his old self; and by contrast with the temporary balloon of
these last weeks, the old self seemed unprecedentedly heavier
than the surrounding atmosphere.

To this deflated Bernard the Savage showed himself unexpectedly
sympathetic.

'You're more like what you were at Malpais,' he said, when Bernard had
told him his plaintive story. 'Do you remember when we first talked
together? Outside the little house. You're like what you were then.'

'Because I'm unhappy again; that's why.'

'Well, I'd rather be unhappy than have the sort of false, lying
happiness you were having here.'

'I like that,' said Bernard bitterly. 'When it's you who were the cause
of it all. Refusing to come to my party and so turning them all against
me!' He knew that what he was saying was absurd in its injustice; he
admitted inwardly, and at last even aloud, the truth of all that the
Savage now said about the worthlessness of friends who could be turned
upon so slight a provocation into persecuting enemies. But in spite of
this knowledge and these admissions, in spite of the fact that his
friend's support and sympathy were now his only comfort, Bernard
continued perversely to nourish, along with his quite genuine affection,
a secret grievance against the Savage, to meditate a campaign of small
revenges to be wreaked upon him. Nourishing a grievance against the
Arch-Community-Songster was useless; there was no possibility of being
revenged on the Chief B