m cleaners...'

'That's not the point.'

'And Epsilon Semi-Morons to work them,' she went on, 'well, really,
_why_?'

'Why? But for you, for _you_. Just to show that I...'

'And what on earth vacuum cleaners have got to do with lions...'

'To show how much...'

'Or lions with being glad to see _me_...' She was getting more and
more exasperated.

'How much I love you, Lenina,' he brought out almost desperately.

An emblem of the inner tide of startled elation, the blood rushed up
into Lenina's cheeks. 'Do you mean it, John?'

'But I hadn't meant to say so,' cried the Savage, clasping his hands in
a kind of agony. 'Not until... Listen, Lenina; in Malpais people get
married.'

'Get what?' The irritation had begun to creep back into her voice. What
was he talking about now?

'For always. They make a promise to live together for always.'

'What a horrible idea!' Lenina was genuinely shocked.

'Outliving beauty's outward, with a mind that doth renew swifter than
blood decays.'

'_What?_'

'It's like that in Shakespeare too. "If thou dost break her virgin knot
before all sanctimonious ceremonies may with full and holy rite..."'

'For Ford's sake, John, talk sense. I can't understand a word you say.
First it's vacuum cleaners; then it's knots. You're driving me crazy.'
She jumped up and, as though afraid that he might run away from her
physically, as well as with his mind, caught him by the wrist. 'Answer
me this question: do you really like me, or don't you?'

There was a moment's silence; then, in a very low voice, 'I love you
more than anything in the world,' he said.

'Then why on earth didn't you say so?' she cried, and so intense was her
exasperation that she drove her sharp nails into the skin of his wrist.
'Instead of drivelling away about knots and vacuum cleaners and lions,
and making me miserable for weeks and weeks.'

She released his hand and flung it angrily away from her.

'If I didn't like you so much,' she said, 'I'd be furious with you.'

And suddenly her arms were round his neck; he felt her lips soft against
his own. So deliciously soft, so warm and electric that inevitably he
found himself thinking of the embraces in _Three Weeks in a Helicopter_.
Ooh! ooh! the stereoscopic blonde and aah! the more than real
blackamoor. Horror, horror, horror... he tried to disengage himself;
but Lenina tightened her embrace.

'Why didn't you say so?' she whispered, drawing back her face to look at
him. Her eyes were tenderly reproachful.

'The murkiest den, the most opportune place' (the voice of conscience
thundered poetically), 'the strongest suggestion our worser genius can,
shall never melt mine honour into lust. Never, never!' he resolved.

'You silly boy!' she was saying. 'I wanted you so much. And if you
wanted me too, why didn't you?...'

'But, Lenina...' he began protesting; and as she immediately untwined
her arms, as she stepped away from him, he thought, for a moment, that
she had taken his unspoken hint. But when she unbuckled her white patent
cartridge belt and hung it carefully over the back of a chair, he began
to suspect that he had been mistaken.

'Lenina!' he repeated apprehensively.

She put her hand to her neck and gave a long vertical pull; her white
sailor's blouse was ripped to the hem; suspicion condensed into a too,
too solid certainty. 'Lenina, what _are_ you doing?'

Zip, zip! Her answer was wordless. She stepped out of her bell-bottomed
trousers. Her zippicamiknicks were a pale shell pink. The
Arch-Community-Songster's golden T dangled at her breast.

'For those milk paps that through the window bars bore at men's
eyes...' The singing, thundering, magical words made her seem
doubly dangerous, doubly alluring. Soft, soft, but how piercing!
boring and drilling into reason, tunnelling through resolution.
'The strongest oaths are straw to the fire i' the blood. Be more
abstemious, or else...'

Zip! The rounded pinkness fell apart like a neatly divided apple. A
wriggle of the arms, a lifting first of the right foot, then the left:
the zippicamiknicks were lying lifeless and as though deflated on the
